hey this is pressure Locker there are 25
horses what is the minimum number of
races needed you can identify the
fastest three horses you can race up to
five horses at a time you do not have a
watch this problem is sometimes asked as
a technical interview question at
companies like Google but since it is a
little bit vague let me present another
version which has some details that
allow you to solve the problem there are
25 mechanical horses and a single race
track each horse completes the track in
a pre-programmed time and the horses all
had different finishing times unknown to
you you can rake up to five horses at a
time after a race is over you get a
printout with the order the horses
finished but not the finishing times of
the horses what is the minimum number of
races you need to identify the fastest
three of all the horses I would suggest
to this problem by email from the puzzle
maker terry nichols and it is sometimes
asked as an interview question at
companies like Google so can you figure
it out
pause the video right now and give it a
try when you're ready to keep watching
the video for a solution
the answer is you can find the three
fastest horses in a minimum of seven
races
I will first describe the procedure in
words and then I will go over the
solution in detail so that you
understand why it works the first step
is to divide the 25 horses into groups
of five and race the horses in each
group this will be a set of five races
next take the winner from each group and
race those five horses the winner of
this race which is the winner of the
winners is the fastest horse overall now
in order to get the second and third
fastest horses we're going to have to do
one more race but to describe that race
I'm going to have to present some
notation so label the five groups from
step one as a B C D and E to correspond
to the groups for the horses that finish
in first second third fourth and fifth
place for the race in step two in other
words label the groups in step one
according to the results of the winners
race in step two furthermore write a
subscript to identify the order that the
horse finished within a group so a two
means the horse stepped in a second
place in Group A so here's that final
race we do one more race with a 2 a 3 B
1 B 2 and C 1 that is race the second
and third fastest horses from Group A
the fastest and second fastest horses
from Group B and the fastest horse from
group C the top two finishers in this
race will be the second and third
fastest horses overall so now I'm going
to show you this procedure in detail and
explain why it is the correct procedure
so we start up by dividing the 25 horses
into groups of five in this race we have
a race of five horses and I'm going to
illustrate it so that the slowest horse
is on the left and the fastest horse is
on
right I'll rearrange the horses if
necessary so that it follows that the
slow source is on the left and the
fastest horse is on the right I'll do
this for all the horses in all of the
different groups now we are going to
take the winner from each group and race
those five horses this will be the horse
on the far right hand side of each group
the winner of this race which will be
the winner of the winners will then be
the fastest horse overall I am again
going to draw this so that the slowest
of the winners is on the bottom and the
fastest of the winners is on the top
we'll rearrange the groups as necessary
to make this diagram work so now we have
the fastest of the winners this will be
the fastest horse overall we know that
it's beat every other horse within this
group and it's beat the fastest horse in
every other group so we have identified
the fastest horse overall now in order
to get to the second and third fastest
horses we'll have to identify the
different groups so a the fastest group
being a and the slowest group being e so
how are we going to get the second and
third fastest overall we're going to do
this by process of elimination we can
eliminate any horse that is slower than
at least three other horses if a horse
is slower than at least three other
horses there's no way it could be the
second or third fastest overall so to
start out with we can eliminate all the
horses in Group E every single horse in
this group will be slower than the
fastest horses in groups a B and C this
is because the fastest horse was slower
than the fastest horses in these groups
a B and C so all of the horses in groups
in Group E cannot possibly be the second
or third fastest overall for exactly the
same reason we can eliminate all horses
in Group D all them are slower than a1
b1
and Siwon we can continue this logic and
we can eliminate all the horses in Group
C except for the fastest horse all of
these other horses will be slower than
a1 b1 and c1 now in Group B we can
eliminate all the horses except for the
two fastest horses b1 and b2 all of them
will again be slower than a1 b1 and then
B 2 so the horses in 3rd 4th and 5th
place in Group B can be eliminated from
Group A we can eliminate the 5th and 4th
fastest horses because they will be
slower than the top 3 horses within
their own group we're left with 6 horses
we can only raise five at a time but we
can actually get rid of one of these
horses we've already identified the
fastest horse overall a1 so we don't
need to race it any more we already know
it's the fastest overall we can't learn
any more information by racing it so we
can actually remove this horse from our
race so we now have a 2 a 3 B 1 B 2 and
C 1 and we do not know the relative
speeds of these different horses so we
can do one more race with these five
horses the winner of this race will be
the second fastest horse overall and the
runoff will then be the third fastest
overall so these will be 7 races which
will allow us to identify the three
fastest horses now just a quick milk
we've shown that 7 races is sufficient I
just want to explain why it's minimal we
obviously have to race each of the 25
horses once and since we can raise 5
horses at a time that means we're going
to at least start out with 25 over 5
which is 5 races we're then going to
need to compare the winners which will
be one more race and we're then going to
have to compare at least the
second-place from Group A to the fastest
horse in Group B among
other possible comparisons in order to
find out the second fastest horse so we
know at least seven races will be needed
and we've shown seven races is
sufficient
therefore the described procedure is
optimal did you figure this out thanks
for watching this video please subscribe
to my channel I make videos on math and
game theory you can catch from my blogs
mind your decisions that you can follow
on Facebook Google+ and patreon you can
catch me on social media at Prashant
Walker and if you like this video please
check out my books there are links in
the video description